Skip to main content
Sign In / Register
Silkworm_Diseases_Dataset
Published: 7 September 2026
|
Version 1
|
DOI:
10.17632/g4b89vpp9c.1
Contributors:
Kajal Mungase
,
Shwetambari Chiwhane
Description

Total Images: 5,529
Disease/Health Classes: Healthy, Pebrine, Grasserie,Flacherie
Target: Overlapping silkworms,Healthy, Pebrine, Grasserie, Flacherie
Applications: Disease classification, object detection, instance segmentation, silkworm counting, and health monitoring.

This dataset contains images of silkworms categorized into five classes: Flacherie, Grasserie, Healthy Silkworm, Overlap, and Pebrine. The images are organized into training, testing, and split subsets to support machine-learning-based silkworm disease classification. The dataset is intended for research and development of computer vision and deep learning models for automated silkworm disease identification.

Download All 231 MB
Files
ZIP
Mendeley_silkworm dataset splitting-20260903T035316Z-1-001.zip
236 MB
Steps to reproduce

Steps to Download and Use the Dataset

1. Download the ZIP file 'Silkworm_Disease_Classification_Dataset_Mendeley' from the Mendeley Data repository.
2. Extract the ZIP file to access the dataset folders.
3. The dataset contains five classes: Flacherie, Grasserie, Healthy_Silkworm, Overlap, and Pebrine
4. Each class folder contains three subsets: train, test, and split
5. The train folder is used for model training, while the test folder is used for independent evaluation.
6. The folder name represents the corresponding class label and can be used directly for image classification.
7. The extracted images can be loaded using standard Python image-processing/deep-learning libraries for further analysis.


Institutions
Symbiosis International University
Maharashtra, Pune
Categories
Agricultural Science, Artificial Intelligence, Image Processing
Licence
CC BY 4.0
Learn more
Latest version
Version 1
Published:
7 Sep 2026
DOI:
10.17632/g4b89vpp9c.1

Cite this dataset

Copy to clipboard
Home
|
About
|
Accessibility Statement
|
Archive Policy
|
File Formats
|
API Docs
|
OAI
|
Mission
|
Status Updates
Terms of Use
|
Privacy Policy
|
Cookie settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2026 Elsevier inc, its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.
We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. You can manage your cookie preferences using theCookie settings link. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie settings
Accept only necessary cookies
Accept all cookies